{
 "Character",
 {
  "Background": "A background is an external trait that your character controls or owns. It is an advantages of relationship, circumstance and opportunity: material possessions, social networks, and the like."
  "Chronicle": "The series of linked stories in which the character participates. Your Storyteller will provide you with the name of the chronicle.",
  "Concept": "A character’s concept generally refers to who the character was before becoming a vampire. Many Kindred cling desperately to any salvageable aspects of their former selves — their self-image, their occupation, how they lived, what was unique about them. In their new nocturnal world, echoes of their mortal lives are all that stand between many Kindred and madness.",
  "Clan": "A character’s Clan is their vampire \"family,\" the undead legacy into which they were Embraced. Vampires are always of the same Clan as their sires, the vampires who Embrace them. The Storyteller may disallow members of certain Clans based on the Sect the chronicle involves. Many chronicles, for example, allow only vampires from the Camarilla Clans, while games run at conventions or by organized play clubs sometimes stipulate specific \"venue appropriate\" criteria.",
  "Demeanor": "This is the personality your character presents to the world. Demeanor is the face that your character chooses to cover their true nature hidden within.",
  "Discipline": "A discipline is a type of supernatural powers that a vampire possesses.",
  "Flaw": "Flaws are liabilities or disadvantages that pose challenges to a character's nightly existence that you can choose at character creation. They provide you with extra creation points equal to the number associated with them (up to a maximum of 7).",
  "Generation": "The number of \"steps\" between a vampire and the mythical Caine; how far descended from the First Vampire a given vampire is.",
  "Merit": "Merits are special abilities or advantages that are rare or unique in the general Kindred population that you can choose at character creation. They cost creation points equal to the number associated with them.",
  "Name": "The name should be your character's name, or whatever other characters will refer to your character as.",
  "Nature": "A Vampire's Nature is their true self, their innermost being — the person they truly are. It is dangerous to show this, though, as it lets others know who we are and what is important to us.",
  "Player": "The player is you. Fill in your name or whatever people may refer to you as.",
  "Sire": "A vampire’s \"parent\"; the Kindred who created them.",
 },
 "Attributes",
 {
  "Strength": "Strength is the raw, brute power of a character. It governs how much weight a character can lift, how much they can physically push, and how hard they can hit another character or object. The Strength Trait is added to a character’s damage dice pool when they hit their opponent in hand-to-hand combat. It is also used when a character wishes to break, lift, or carry something, as well as when a character tries to jump a distance.",
  "Dexterity": "Dexterity measures a character’s general physical prowess. It encompasses the character’s speed, agility, and overall quickness, as well as indicating the character’s ability to manipulate objects with control and precision. Also included under Dexterity’s heading are hand-eye coordination, reflexes, and bodily grace.",
  "Stamina": "The Stamina Trait reflects a character’s health, toughness, and resilience. It indicates how long a character can exert themselves and how much punishment they can withstand before suffering physical trauma. Stamina also includes a bit of psychic fortitude, indicating a character’s grit and tenacity.",
  "Charisma": "Charisma is a character’s ability to entice and please others through their personality. Charisma comes into question when a character tries to win another character’s sympathies or encourage others to trust her. Charisma reflects the power of a character’s charm and influence. It governs a character’s ability to convince others to see their point of view.",
  "Manipulation": "Manipulation measures a character’s ability for self-expression in the interests of getting others to share their outlook or follow their whims. In short, it’s getting others to do what they want. Manipulation comes into play when a character tries to influence or subtly guide another’s behavior. Manipulation is used to trick, bluff, fast-talk, and railroad other characters.",
  "Appearance": "Appearance is a measure of how well a character makes a first impression. This may be conventional \"attractiveness,\" but it can also be the effect of distinctive features, an exotic mien, an air of confidence, distinctive posture, a flair for dressing well — anything remarkable upon initial observation can contribute to a character’s Appearance.",
  "Perception": "Perception measures a character’s ability to observe their environment. This may involve a conscious effort, such as searching an area, but it is more often intuitive, as the character’s keen senses notice something out of the ordinary. Perception is a sensitivity to one’s surroundings, and is seldom present in the cynical or jaded (who have seen it all before).",
  "Intelligence": "The Intelligence Attribute refers to a character’s grasp of facts and knowledge. It also governs a character’s ability to reason, solve problems, and evaluate situations. Intelligence also includes critical thinking and flexibility of thought. Intelligence does not include savvy, wisdom, or common sense, as those are properties of the character’s personality, not Traits.",
  "Wits": "The Wits Trait measures the character’s ability to think on their feet and react quickly to a certain situation. It also reflects a character’s general cleverness. Characters with low Wits ratings are thick and mentally lethargic, or maybe gullible and unsophisticated. By contrast, characters with high Wits Traits almost always have a plan immediately and adapt to their surroundings with striking expedience. Characters with high Wits also keep their cool in stressful situations.",
 },
 "Abilities",
 {
  "Alertness": "This is your basic knack for noticing things that go on around you, even when you're not actively looking for them. Alertness describes the attention you pay to the outside world, whether otherwise occupied or not. This Talent is typically paired with Perception, and is best used when sensing physical stimuli (as opposed to moods or clues).",
  "Athletics": "This Talent represents your basic athletic ability, as well as any training you might have had in sports or other rigorous activities. Athletics concerns all forms of running, jumping, throwing, swimming, sports, and the like. However, Athletics doesn’t cover basic motor actions such as lifting weights, nor does it govern athletic feats covered by another Ability (such as Melee).",
  "Awareness": "Awareness is an instinctual reaction to the presence of the supernatural. Usually, only supernatural creatures have access to this particular Talent, but some unique mortals have a sense that something is strange in the world. Characters with high Awareness sometimes get hunches, chills, or sudden flashes of inspiration when they are near supernatural creatures, objects, or events.",
  "Brawl": "The Brawl Talent represents how well you fight in tooth-and-nail situations. This Talent represents skill in unarmed combat, whether from formal martial arts training or simply from plenty of experience. Effective brawlers are coordinated, resistant to pain, quick, strong, and mean. The willingness to do whatever it takes to hurt your opponent wins plenty of fights.",
  "Empathy": "Empathy is the ability to understand the emotions of others, whether it's to sympathize with, feign sympathy for, or play on such emotions as you see fit. You are adept at discerning motive, and might be able to discern when someone’s lying to you. However, you may be so in tune with other people’s feelings that your own emotions are affected.",
  "Expression": "Expression is the ability to get your point across clearly, whether through conversation, poetry, etc. Characters with high Expression can phrase their opinions or beliefs in a manner that cannot be ignored (even if their opinions are misinformed or worthless). They might also be talented actors, skilled at conveying moods or communicating emotion with every gesture. You can choose a specialty in Expression, even at less than 4 dots.",
  "Intimidation": "Intimidation takes many forms, from outright threats and physical violence to mere force of personality. It needn’t be course or callous, and a well-placed intimidating word under the right circumstances might well be called “diplomacy” in certain circles. You know the right method for each occasion, and can be very... persuasive.",
  "Leadership": "Leadership is the ability to be an example to others and inspire them to do what you want. Leadership has less to do with manipulating people’s desires than it does with presenting yourself as the sort of person they want to follow. Anyone can lead a group into some sort of conflict; a good leader can get them back out intact. This Talent is usually paired with Charisma rather than Manipulation.",
  "Streetwise": "The streets can provide a lot of information or money to those who know the language. Streetwise allows you to blend in unobtrusively with the local scene, pick up gossip, understand slang, or even dabble in criminal doings.",
  "Subterfuge": "Subterfuge is the ability of understanding how to conceal your own motives and project what you wish. Furthermore, if you can root out other people’s motives, you can then use those motives against them. This Talent defines your talent for intrigue, secrets, and double-dealing. Mastery of Subterfuge can make you the ultimate seducer or a brilliant spy.",
  "Animal Ken": "Animal Ken is the character's ability to understand animals’ behavior patterns. This Skill allows you to predict how an animal might react in a given situation, train a domesticated creature, or even try to calm or enrage animals.",
  "Crafts": "The Crafts Skill covers your ability to make or fix things with your hands. Crafts allows you to work in fields such as carpentry, leatherworking, weaving, or even mechanical expertise such as car repair. You can even create lasting works of art with this Skill, depending on the number of successes you achieve. You must always choose a specialization in Crafts, even though you retain some skill in multiple fields.",
  "Drive": "Drive is your ability to drive a car, and maybe other vehicles as well. This Skill does not automatically entail familiarity with complicated vehicles such as tanks or 18-wheelers, and difficulties may vary depending on your experience with individual automobiles. After all, helming a station wagon doesn’t prepare you for double-clutching a Maserati at 100 miles per hour.",
  "Etiquette": "Etiquette is the ability to understand the nuances of proper behavior, in both mortal society and Kindred culture. In many cases, knowing how to broach a topic is as important as the discussion itself, and a person with poor etiquette will never have an opportunity to make themselves heard because they don’t know when or how to interject. This Skill is used during meetings, haggling, seduction, dancing, dinner etiquette, and all forms of diplomacy.",
  "Firearms": "Executing a mortal with a sword starts investigations. Clawing someone to ribbons tears the edges of the Masquerade. So Kindred adapt, and many have devoted their energies to learning how to kill with guns. This Skill represents familiarity with a range of firearms, from holdout pistols to heavy machine guns. Further, someone skilled in Firearms can clean, repair, recognize, and accurately fire most forms of small arms.",
  "Larceny": "This Skill entails familiarity with the tools and techniques for the sorts of physical manipulation typically associated with criminal activity. Picking locks, manual forgery, safecracking, simple hotwiring, various forms of breaking and entering, and even sleight-of-hand all fall under the auspices of Larceny. Larceny is useful not only for theft, but also for setting up \"the unbeatable system\" or deducing where a thief broke in.",
  "Melee": "As the Kindred maxim runs, \"Guns mean nothing to a lifeless heart\". A blade is often worth far more, as is the skill to use it properly. Melee covers your ability to use hand-to-hand weapons of all forms, from swords and clubs to esoteric martial-arts paraphernalia such as sai or nunchaku. And, of course, there is always the utility of the wooden stake....",
  "Performance": "The Performance Skill governs your ability to perform artistic endeavors such as singing, dancing, acting, or playing music. You should be specialized in one field, but true virtuosos may be talented in many forms of performance. This Skill represents not only technical know-how, but the ability to enrapture an audience with your show. You must choose a specialty, even though this Skill also imparts a general sense for watching and responding to your audience’s mood.",
  "Stealth": "Stealth is the ability to avoid being detected, whether you’re hiding or moving at the time. Stealth is often tested against someone else’s Perception + Alertness. This Ability is, for obvious reasons, highly useful in stalking prey. In many cases, Stealth is also used to conceal items, whether on one’s person or somewhere in the environment.",
  "Survival": "Although vampires have little to fear from starvation and exposure, the wilderness can still be dangerous to Kindred. This Skill allows you to find shelter, navigate to civilization, track prey, establish a makeshift haven, and possibly even avoid supernatural threats like werewolves. Note that Survival need not be used only in areas considered “wilderness.” There’s plenty of Survival that goes into getting by in various parts of modern cities.",
  "Academics": "This catchall Knowledge covers the character’s erudition in the humanities: literature, history, art, philosophy, etc. A character with Academics is generally well rounded in these fields, and at high levels may be considered an expert in one or more areas of study. You may choose a specialty in Academics at less than four dots.",
  "Computer": "This Knowledge represents the ability to operate and program computers, including mobile devices. Most Computer use also imparts a degree of Internet awareness (if not savvy).",
  "Finance": "The Finance Knowledge lets you know the ins and outs of commerce, from evaluating an item’s relative worth to keeping up with currency exchange rates. This Knowledge can be invaluable when brokering items, running numbers, or playing the stock market. Sufficiently high levels in Finance allow you to raise your standards of living to a very comfortable level.",
  "Investigation": "The Investigation Knowledge lets you notice details others might overlook, and might make you an admirable detective. This Knowledge represents not only a good eye for detail, but also an ability to do research and follow leads. Such research may include Internet searches or more specific research techniques like hitting the law books and periodicals archives at the library.",
  "Law": "The Law Knowledge represents a knowledge of both legal statutes and proper procedures for enforcing them. Law can be useful for filing suits, avoiding lawsuits, or getting out of jail. The Law Knowledge has any number of specialties, and a player may choose one for their character when they take this Ability, representing both their field of experience and a general sense for how the legal system (especially in their locality) functions, though this is not mandatory.",
  "Medicine": "Medicine gives you an understanding of how the human body — and to a lesser extent the vampiric body — works. This Ability covers knowledge of medicines, ailments, first-aid procedures, and diagnosis or treatment of disease. Medicine is of great use to those Kindred with an interest in repairing, damaging, or reworking the human body.",
  "Occult": "The Occult ability gives you are knowledge in occult areas such as mysticism, curses, magic, folklore, and particularly vampire lore. Unlike most other Knowledges, Occult does not imply a command of hard facts. Much of what you know may well be rumor, myth, speculation, or hearsay. However, the secrets to be learned in this field are worth centuries of sifting legend from fact.",
  "Politics": "The Politics Knowledge makes you familiar with the political stage of the moment, including the people in charge and how they got there. This Knowledge can aid you in dealing with or influencing mortal politicians, or even offer some insight into the local Kindred power structure. The Politics Knowledge includes the ability to practically navigate various bureaucracies, as it assumes that certain organizational structures and relationship currencies are universal.",
  "Science": "The Science Knowledge gives you a basic understanding of most of the physical sciences, such as chemistry, biology, physics, and geology. This Knowledge can be put to all forms of practical use. In most cases, a player should select a specialty to reflect a focus for their character’s scientific studies, but this isn’t strictly necessary.",
  "Technology": "The Technology Knowledge is the wide-ranging Ability used to build one’s own computer, install (or subvert) a security system, repair a mobile phone, or kitbash a shortwave radio. You must always choose a specialization in Technology, even though you possess some skill in multiple fields. The Technology Knowledge represents a broad acumen with electronics, computer hardware, and devices more elaborate than \"machines,\" which fall under the Crafts Skill.",
 },
"Anarch": "1) A member of the Anarch Movement. 2) Any Kindred rebel who opposes the tyranny of elders.",
"Antitribu": "An \"anti-Clan,\" or one who has turned their back on the Sect that their Clan has founded (usually by joining the Sabbat). Some antitribu have evolved into new bloodlines.",
"Beast": "The innate drives and urges that threaten to turn a vampire into a mindless, ravening monster.",
"Black Hand": "The True Black Hand (Tal'Mahe'Ra) is a bizarre paranoid conspiracy of a Sect that spends little time in contact with the other factions of Kindred society. Its mission seems to be one of shepherding and protecting the world toward an end only it understands.",
"Blood": "A vampire’s heritage; that which makes a vampire a vampire. Usage: I doubt their claims to such esteemed Blood.",
"Bloodline": "1) A vampire's heritage (see lineage). 2) A pedigree of vampires similar to a Clan, but that cannot trace their creation back to one of the Third Generation.",
"Blood Bond": "A mystical power over another individual engendered by partaking of a particular vampire’s blood thrice; accepting blood from a vampire is an acknowledgment of their mastery.",
"Camarilla": "A Sect of vampires devoted primarily to maintaining the Traditions, particularly that of the Masquerade.",
"Changeling": "Changelings are humans born with a fae soul inhabiting their body alongside their human one, and are the only kind of fae to inhabit the modern world.",
"Childe": "A vampire created through the Embrace — the childe is the progeny of their sire. This term is often used derogatorily, indicating inexperience. Plural childer.",
"Coterie": "A small group of Kindred, united by the need for support and sometimes common interests. In the Sabbat, coteries are called \"packs.\"",
"Diablerie": "The act of consuming another vampire's blood.",
"Diablerist": "A vampire who engages in the act of consuming another vampire’s blood (diablerie).",
"Elder": "A vampire who has experienced at least two or more centuries of unlife. Elders are the most active participants in the Jyhad.",
"Elysium": "A place where vampires may gather without fear of harm (although some Sects, such as the Sabbat, respect Elysium less than the Camarilla does). Elysium is commonly established in opera houses, theaters, museums, and other locations of culture.",
"Embrace": "The act of transforming a mortal into a vampire. The Embrace requires the vampire to drain their victim and then replace that victim’s blood with a bit of their own.",
"Fae": "(Fae, Faerie, Fair Folk). Fae is a term given to any spirits who are native to the Dreaming, a mythic shard of reality that overlaps the mortal world.",
"Haven": " A vampire’s \"home\"; where they find sanctuary from the sun.",
"Humanity": "1) Mortal humans as a whole. 2) A measure of how closely a vampire clings to the morality and values of mortal life, and consequently how well they are able to resist the urges of the Beast.",
"Infernalist": "An Infernalists is one who casts their lot with demons and other creatures of the Inferno. Some receive power in the form of Demonic Investments or other malign gifts; others tap into the power of Hell through Paths of sorcery; and those supernatural creatures who follow the path of screams receive twisted powers of their own.",
"Jyhad": "The secret, self-destructive war waged between the Generations. Elder vampires manipulate their lessers, using them as pawns in a terrible game whose rules defy comprehension.",
"Kindred": "The race of vampires as a whole, or a single vampire. According to rumor, this term came about in the 15th or 16th century. Sabbat vampires scorn the term, preferring the word \"Cainite\" instead.",
"Kine": "A term for mortals, largely contemptuous. The phrase \"Kindred and kine\" refers to the world at large; everything.",
"Kolduns": "The Tzimisce Kolduns are a variant of clan Tzimisce that control powerful sorcery.",
"Mage": "A mortal that has control over powerful magic which can bend reality. ",
"Sabbat": "A Sect of vampires that rejects humanity, embracing their monstrous natures. The Sabbat is bestial and violent, preferring to lord over mortals rather than hide from them.",
"Shadowlands": "The Shadowlands are the death-based reflection of the living world found in the Classic World of Darkness. The Shadowlands wrap and reflect the living world - every location in the mortal world has a direct physical analogue in the Shadowlands, although the relationship can sometimes be tenuous.",
"Wraith": "A wraith is a ghost, the soul of a person who has died unfulfilled and now haunts the Shadowlands.",
"Animalism": "Animalism allows the vampire to amplify their intensely primordial nature. They can not only communicate with animals, but can also force their will upon them, directing such beasts to do as they command. As the vampire grows in power, they can even control the Beast within mortals and other supernaturals.",
"Auspex": "Auspex gives the vampire uncanny sensory abilities. They start with the capacity to heighten their natural senses significantly, but as they grow in power, they can perceive psychic auras and read the thoughts of another being. Auspex can also pierce through mental illusions such as those created by Obfuscate.",
"Bardo": "Bardo is a discipline dedicated to denying and surpressing the Beast within, and was handed down by Osiris himself when he first discovered this path. It involves attainment of a constant state of mystical consciousness, only achieved by the Children of Osiris. They must maintain Humanity equal to their highest level of ability, or lose that ability. If their Humanity ever drops below the required level, then that ability level is lost and must be bought again with experience points, or with the power Restore Humanitas.",
"Celerity": "Celerity allows a vampire to move with astonishing swiftness, becoming practically a blur. When a vampire uses Celerity, the world around them seems to slow down.",
"Chimerstry": "Chimerstry is fundamentally an art of conjuration that converts the vampire's will into phantoms that confound the senses and technology alike. Illusions created by Chimerstry can be seen for what they are by a victim who \"proves\" the illusion's falsehood, and explicitly incredible illusions are seen as false immediately.",
"Dominate": "Dominate is a vampire's ability to influence another person's thoughts and actions through their own force of will. Dominate requires that the vampire capture their victim's gaze; as such, it may be used against only one subject at a time. Further, commands must be issued verbally, or simple orders may be made with signs. However, the subject won't comply if they can't understand the vampire, no matter how powerful the Kindred’s will is.",
"Daimonion": "Daimonion is a diabolic Discipline practiced almost exclusively by the Baali and the very worst vampire infernalists. Its power is that of the Devil himself, and through the use of Daimonion a vampire draws upon the forces of Hell and its demons to demoralize and cripple their enemies.",
"Dementation": "Dementation is the Discipline that allows a vampire to focus and channel madness into the minds of those around him. Though it's the natural legacy of the Malkavians, practitioners of Dementation need not actually be mad to use the Discipline; but it helps. Disturbingly, Dementation doesn't actually make their victims mad, but rather it seems to break down the doors to the hidden darkness of the target's mind, releasing into the open whatever is found there.",
"Flight": "Gargoyles possess a fourth in-clan Discipline, called Flight. All Gargoyles start with a free dot, and it can be increased like any other Discipline. As the Gargoyle gains dots of Flight, they become capable of flying faster.",
"Fortitude": "Fortitude bestows a resilience that would make an action movie hero envious. Vampires with this Discipline can shrug off agonizing trauma and make the most bone-shattering impact look like a flesh wound. The power even offers protection against the traditional banes of vampires, such as sunlight and fire.",
"Melpominee": "Melpominee is the unique discipline of speech and song, practiced almost exclusively by the Daughters of Cacophony. The powers of Melpominee explore the various uses of the voice for both benefit and harm. No character may have a rating in Melpominee higher than their Performance rating. Melpominee affects the subject's soul as well as the ears; thus, it works perfectly well on deaf subjects Additionally, the powers of Melpominee work only on those who are present when it is used.",
"Mytherceria": "The Mytherceria Discipline is a collection of powers that mimic the abilities of faeries — or at least, that’s the best guess of the Kindred who are familiar with it. The Kiasyd use this power to alter and beguile the minds of their foes, as well as to force others to tell the truth. The Kiasyd do not, in general, teach this Discipline to those outside the bloodline, and supposedly it would require oaths sworn on the lifeblood of the student to learn.",
"Necromancy": "Necromancy is both a Discipline and a school of blood magic devoted to the command of the souls of the dead. It has several \"paths\" and accompanying \"rituals\" rather than a strict linear progression of powers. The study of Necromancy is not widespread among the Kindred, and its practitioners — primarily the Giovanni — are shunned and despised for their foul practices (until those practices become useful, of course.)",
"Obeah": "Obeah allows a vampire to judge and even improve a subject’s health. As the vampire grows more powerful, Obeah lets them heal a target’s soul directly. Almost exclusively practiced by the Healer faction of the Salubri bloodline, it is this power that forms the basis of the \"soulsucker\" charge that dogs the bloodline these nights. This Discipline also gives its practitioners a third eye in the center of the vampire's forehead when the Kindred masters the second level of Obeah.",
"Obfuscate": "Obfuscate is the uncanny ability for Kindred to conceal themselves from sight, sometimes even in full view of a crowd. An Obfuscated vampire doesn't actually become invisible, however — rather, they are able to delude observers into believing that they have vanished. Obfuscate also allows Kindred to change their features and conceal other people or objects. Unlike Chimerstry, Obfuscate will not affect technology such as security cameras.",
"Obtenebration": "Obtenebration grants the vampire power over darkness itself. The effects of Obtenebration are terrifying, as waves of darkness roil out from the Cainite, enveloping those in their path like an infernal wave. Vampires using Obtenebration can see through the darkness they control, though other vampires (even those that also have Obtenebration) cannot.",
"Ogham": "The Ogham discipline is a form of blood sorcery based on Celtic runes and practiced almost exclusively by the Lhiannan bloodline. Ogham allows a vampire to tap into a forest spirit's power, and into its communion with free spirits of its ilk. Ogham is strongest within a vampire's home territory. More than 50 miles (80 km) from their home territory, the difficulty of using Ogham increases by one, as the vampire's own spirit-shard comes into conflict with unfamiliar local spirit life.",
"Potence": "Potence endows Kindred with unnatural strength. It enables vampire to leap massive distances, lift tremendous weights, and strike opponents with brutal force. Even low ranks of this power can give Kindred physical power beyond mortal bounds. More powerful Kindred can leap so far that they appear to be flying, toss cars like soda cans, and punch through walls like cardboard.",
"Presence": "Presence is the Discipline of emotional manipulation. Vampires with this power can inspire passionate fervor or unreasoning terror in mortals and Kindred alike. In addition, unlike most Disciplines, some of Presence's powers can be used on entire crowds at one time. Presence can transcend race, religion, gender, class, and (most importantly) supernatural nature. As such, this subtle power is one of the most useful Disciplines a vampire can possess.",
"Protean": "Protean allows the Kindred the mystical ability to manipulate their physical form. Some vampires believe the power stems from a heightened connection to the natural world, while others consider it to be a magnification of the mark of Caine. Whatever its basis may be, those that develop this Discipline can grow bestial claws, take on the forms of bats and wolves, turn themselves into mist, and even meld into the very earth itself.",
"Quietus":  "Quietus is the Discipline of silent death, and is practiced primarily by those of Clan Assamite. Based on elements of blood, poison, vitae control, and pestilence, Quietus focuses on the destruction of a target through a variety of means. This Discipline doesn't always cause a quick death, but practitioners rely on its lethality to hide their involvement with their victims.",
"Sanguinus": "Sanguinus is the unwholesome Discipline granted to the Blood Brothers by the Tzimisce who created them. The Sanguinus Discipline allows vampires who practice it to combine parts of their bodies, loan them out to others, and coordinate their minds and appendages; even low levels of it are unsettling to watch. Use of the higher levels is disgusting, indeed, as flesh parts and exposed organs, atrophied by the vampire's state of undeath, merge and pulse.",
"Serpentis": "Serpentis grants powers of transformation into reptilian and snake-like forms, and at higher levels, the ability to pull one's own heart from their body while remaining unharmed. Serpentis is believed to be the legacy of Set himself, a gift to his children, the Followers of Set. The Setites are very careful to guard this Discipline’s secrets, only teaching the art to those who they deem worthy.",
"Spiritus": "The Discipline of Spiritus allows a vampire to commune with and summon animalistic spirits. At higher levels, a vampire can channel the spirit's strength within themselves. Vampires are spiritually dead, unable to create life. The shamanic ritual that created the Ahrimanes, though, allowed a spiritual connection between the undead and the vast, living world all around them.",
"Temporis": "The Temporis Discipline allows a vampire some control over the flow of time. Masters of Temporis often grow ever more detached from the passage of ages. True Brujah claim this discipline as their signature power. This, combined with the natural tendency for Sages to grow emotionally and spiritually distant, makes True Brujah elders exceptionally dangerous. They know that all life is finite, and so they feel no compunction about ending it.",
"Thanatosis": "Thanatosis deals closely with death and the energies of decay, although strangely, no Giovanni have ever claimed mastery of this power. Thanatosis is an almost exclusive development of the Samedi bloodline, and it is tied intrinsically to the Stiffs' identity and history.",
"Thaumaturgy": "Thaumaturgy encompasses blood magic and other sorcerous arts available to Kindred. The Tremere created Thaumaturgy by combining mortal wizardry with the power of vampiric vitae, and as a result it is a versatile and powerful Discipline. The Tremere remain this Discipline’s masters and keepers, jealously hoarding Thaumaturgy's power. The practice of Thaumaturgy is divided into paths and rituals, much like Necromancy.",
"Valeren": "Valeren provides control over pain and increased martial ability, seemingly allowing warriors to draw on the power of heaven to vanquish their foes. Valeren is the signature discipline of the Warrior faction of the Salubri bloodline. Like Obeah, Valeren imparts its practitioners with the fabled third eye of Saulot. The third eye appears at the time the vampire masters the second level of Valeren.",
"Vicissitude": "Vicissitude allows vampires to shape and sculpt flesh and bone. When a Kindred uses Vicissitude to alter a creature, the effects of the power are permanent, unless the target is a vampire of equal or lower Generation, who can choose to heal the effects of Vicissitude as though they were aggravated wounds. A wielder of Vicissitude can always reshape their own flesh. Vicissitude is the signature power of the Tzimisce, and is rarely shared outside the Clan.",
"Visceratika": "Visceratika is a discipline that is an extension of the Gargoyles' natural affinity for stone and earth. Certain Visceratika powers closely resemble some aspects of Protean and, to a lesser extent, Vicissitude. Tremere in a position to know insist that this is pure coincidence, but the few among the Gargoyles who retain scholarly aspirations insist that the Gangrel and Tzimisce blood used to create the bloodline still maintains a certain hold over its members.",
"Conscience/Conviction": "Conscience is a Trait that allows characters to evaluate their conduct with relation to what is \"right\" and \"wrong.\" A character's moral judgment with Conscience stems from her attitude and outlook. Conscience is what prevents a vampire from succumbing to the Beast, by defining the Beast's urges as unacceptable.",
"Self-Control/Instinct": "Self-Control defines a character's discipline and mastery over the Beast. Characters with high Self-Control rarely succumb to emotional urges, and are thus able to restrain their darker sides more readily than characters with low Self-Control.",
"Courage": "All characters have a Courage Trait, regardless of the Path they follow. Courage is the quality that allows characters to stand in the face of fear or daunting adversity. It is bravery, mettle, and stoicism combined. A character with high Courage meets her fears head-on, while a character of lesser Courage may flee in terror."
}
